Student assignment work for Coursera "Getting and Cleaning Data" course project

For this assignment:

The zip file was downloaded from http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones. The data was saved locally unpacked and the files reviewed for consistency. Three basic file sets were provided:
1. An overall set containing activity index information and header information common to the other two file sets.
2. A training set consisting of a file containing participating subject information, a corresponding file with training activity training information, and corresponding file with processed training data.
3. A test set consisting of a file containing participating subject information, a corresponding file with training activity training information, and corresponding file with processed training data.
Note: All pertinent data was reviewed, extracted to datafiles for further processing as described below.
Note: Items 2. & 3. further contained "raw" data files which were not used as they were not pertinent to this assignment.

Assignment - Overall tidy dataset.
These data sets were combined and extracted to produce a tidy data set (Set_1) of the overall means and averages as follows:
1. The three files training files were combined column-wise by column to produce a unified file of training data.
2. Likewise, the three test files were combined column-wise in a like order to the training files to produce a unified file of test data.
3. The new training and test files were combined row-wise to produce a single overall dataset.
4. Generic column headings were replaced with descriptive headings using the overall set of header information.
5. Indexed activity data was replaced with descriptive headings using the activity index.
6. The final set (Set_1) was produced by maintaining identifying columns and column headings containing partial strings of either "mean()" or "std()". Care was taken to disclude inconsistent columns containing "meanFrequency()" or similar.

Assignment - tidy subset, from Overall tidy dataset, with subject data row averages and row standard deviations.
Set_1 was utilized to produce this subset (Set_2) as follows:
1. A new file (Set_2) was produced containing only the identifying columns from Set_1.
2. Another file was produced containing only the data columns from Set_1, and from this, row means and row a standard deviations were developed.
3. The final set (Set_2) was produced by adding only the row mean and row a standard deviation columns.

Notes:
a. All variables are unitless.
b. The downloaded zip file were unzipped and converted to data tables (dataframes) for further processing.
c. Refer to script comments for additional details regarding file and data processing.

